README.md, before:

# Session Desktop

[Download at getsession.org](https://getsession.org/download)

## Summary

Session integrates directly with [Oxen Service Nodes](https://docs.oxen.io/about-the-oxen-blockchain/oxen-service-nodes), which are a set of distributed, decentralized and Sybil resistant nodes. Service Nodes act as servers which store messages offline, and a set of nodes which allow for onion routing functionality obfuscating users IP Addresses. For a full understanding of how Session works, read the [Session Whitepaper](https://getsession.org/whitepaper).
<br/><br/>
![DesktopSession](https://i.imgur.com/ydVhH00.png)

## Want to Contribute? Found a Bug or Have a feature request?

Please search for any [existing issues](https://github.com/oxen-io/session-desktop/issues) that describe your bug in order to avoid duplicate submissions. <br><br>Submissions can be made by making a pull request to our development branch.If you don't know where to start contributing please read [Contributing.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) and refer to issues tagged with the [Good-first-issue](https://github.com/oxen-io/session-desktop/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22good+first+issue%22) tag.

## Supported platforms

Session requires Windows 10 or later, macOS Monterey (12) or later, or a Linux distribution with glibc 2.28 or later like Debian 10 or Ubuntu 20.04.

## Build instruction

Build instructions can be found in [Contributing.md](CONTRIBUTING.md).

## Verifying signatures

Get Kee's key and import it:

```
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/oxen-io/oxen-core/dev/utils/gpg_keys/KeeJef.asc
gpg --import KeeJef.asc
```

Get the signed hash for this release, the SESSION_VERSION needs to be updated for the release you want to verify

```
export SESSION_VERSION=1.6.1
wget https://github.com/oxen-io/session-desktop/releases/download/v$SESSION_VERSION/signatures.asc
```

Verify the signature of the hashes of the files

```
gpg --verify signatures.asc 2>&1 |grep "Good signature from"
```

The command above should print "`Good signature from "Kee Jefferys...`"
If it does, the hashes are valid but we still have to make the sure the signed hashes matches the downloaded files.

Make sure the two commands below returns the same hash.
If they do, files are valid

```
sha256sum session-desktop-linux-amd64-$SESSION_VERSION.deb
grep .deb signatures.asc
```

## Debian repository

Please visit https://deb.oxen.io/<br/>

## License

Copyright 2011 Whisper Systems<br/>
Copyright 2013-2017 Open Whisper Systems<br/>
Copyright 2019-2023 The Oxen Project<br/>
Licensed under the GPLv3: https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.html<br/>

## Attributions

The IP-to-country mapping data used in this project is provided by [MaxMind GeoLite2](https://dev.maxmind.com/geoip/geolite2-free-geolocation-data).

Commit message:

docs: deprecate repo
deprecate repo and update signature verification with a note

README.md, after:

# Repository Deprecated

## This repository is now deprecated. However, Session Desktop is still actively developed [here](https://github.com/session-foundation/session-desktop). This is in line with announcements from [Session](https://getsession.org/blog/introducing-the-session-technology-foundation) and the [OPTF](https://optf.ngo/blog/the-optf-and-session), indicating that the OPTF has handed over the stewardship of the Session Project to the [Session Technology Foundation](https://session.foundation), a Swiss-based foundation dedicated to advancing digital rights and innovation.

# Session Desktop

[Download at getsession.org](https://getsession.org/download)

## Summary

Session integrates directly with [Oxen Service Nodes](https://docs.oxen.io/about-the-oxen-blockchain/oxen-service-nodes), which are a set of distributed, decentralized and Sybil resistant nodes. Service Nodes act as servers which store messages offline, and a set of nodes which allow for onion routing functionality obfuscating users IP Addresses. For a full understanding of how Session works, read the [Session Whitepaper](https://getsession.org/whitepaper).
<br/><br/>
![DesktopSession](https://i.imgur.com/ydVhH00.png)

## Want to Contribute? Found a Bug or Have a feature request?

Please search for any [existing issues](https://github.com/oxen-io/session-desktop/issues) that describe your bug in order to avoid duplicate submissions. <br><br>Submissions can be made by making a pull request to our development branch.If you don't know where to start contributing please read [Contributing.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) and refer to issues tagged with the [Good-first-issue](https://github.com/oxen-io/session-desktop/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22good+first+issue%22) tag.

## Supported platforms

Session requires Windows 10 or later, macOS Monterey (12) or later, or a Linux distribution with glibc 2.28 or later like Debian 10 or Ubuntu 20.04.

## Build instruction

Build instructions can be found in [Contributing.md](CONTRIBUTING.md).

## Verifying signatures

Note: Session Desktop versions newer than 1.14.2 are signed with Jason Rhinelander's GPG key, signatures are contained in a file called signature.asc rather than signatures.asc
Jason's GPG key can be found here https://github.com/jagerman.gpg and in other locations.

Get Kee's key and import it:

```
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/oxen-io/oxen-core/dev/utils/gpg_keys/KeeJef.asc
gpg --import KeeJef.asc
```

Get the signed hash for this release, the SESSION_VERSION needs to be updated for the release you want to verify

```
export SESSION_VERSION=1.6.1
wget https://github.com/oxen-io/session-desktop/releases/download/v$SESSION_VERSION/signatures.asc
```

Verify the signature of the hashes of the files

```
gpg --verify signatures.asc 2>&1 |grep "Good signature from"
```

The command above should print "`Good signature from "Kee Jefferys...`"
If it does, the hashes are valid but we still have to make the sure the signed hashes matches the downloaded files.

Make sure the two commands below returns the same hash.
If they do, files are valid

```
sha256sum session-desktop-linux-amd64-$SESSION_VERSION.deb
grep .deb signatures.asc
```

## Debian repository

Please visit https://deb.oxen.io/<br/>

## License

Copyright 2011 Whisper Systems<br/>
Copyright 2013-2017 Open Whisper Systems<br/>
Copyright 2019-2023 The Oxen Project<br/>
Licensed under the GPLv3: https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.html<br/>

## Attributions

The IP-to-country mapping data used in this project is provided by [MaxMind GeoLite2](https://dev.maxmind.com/geoip/geolite2-free-geolocation-data).
